Hello? Hi. Okay. Welcome to Web Lab twenty
twenty five. My name's Stanley. I'm one of
the co presidents. My name's Andy. I'm also
co president. Just some few things to go
over really quickly while we go over sort
of our intro spiel. Make sure you have
done the setup because we have workshops today,
so you'll be following along. And you won't
be able to do that if you haven't
gotten your stuff set up. So if you
haven't, go to weblab.ishomework0 and just make sure
you finish the setup. If you already have
it done, then good job. Okay, let's talk
about what Web Lab is. Web Lab is
essentially a web development class. We teach front
end to back end full stack web development.
We have free lunch every day of lecture.
We also run a competition for the second
half of the class throughout IEP and there's
a lot of cash prizes for you to
win. And if you register on Websys, we
are graded a PDF and we give you
guys six units of unrestricted elective credit. So
this is this year's course staff. They're sitting
over there. They'll be the ones helping you
throughout this class. Some more reminders, make sure
you're registered on the portal. The portal is
also where we send email communications and it's
also where you guys are going to be
submitting your milestones so make sure you have
that done. Also join the Piazza. We're going
to be posting a bunch of important info
on Piazza and also it's a great place
to ask questions, so make sure you have
that done as well. Lectures will also be
livestreamed and recorded to YouTube, and you can
join the livestream at weblab.islivestream. The lectures are
not mandatory and we don't take attendance. This
is just purely what you put into the
class is what you get out of the
class. And, yeah, you can also join the
Zoom directly if you just wanna watch the
lecture being streamed. We'll go over some logistics
now. So the competition is not mandatory, it's
a second half and it's completely optional. But
we'd highly encourage you to submit your website
anyways because who knows, maybe you'll win some
cash. We'll also have live help during the
workshops and the lectures. And you can go
to weblab. And then you can just create
a ticket and we'll be walking around helping
you answer questions and stuff like that. You
can also go to the questions doc at
weblab.isquestions and here you could just ask questions
anonymously. There's also an old doc with questions
that were asked in previous years so you
can also check there to see if your
question has been asked before. And then we
also have weblab.ininfo so you can go here
to find a bunch of useful short links,
resources, stuff like that. And we'll also have
a team finding mixer at the end of
lectures today So if you don't have a
team yet, don't worry. You can stay after
class and find some people. So here's a
little course overview. This is our general schedule.
So week one we're gonna be sort of
laying the groundworks, learning the basics and building
an app from scratch together. Week two we're
gonna start getting a little more complicated. We're
gonna add some cool features, go into some
advanced topics and also get some sponsor lectures.
And then week three is where we're done
with class and now we're entering the competition
phase. So now you're going to be working.
You can either submit your website to the
competition or just simply for the milestone for
credit. And then week four, you finalize your
projects, you make your final submissions, we're gonna
judge them, and then we go to the
award ceremony. And you can check the schedule
on the website if you need any specifics.
We take you end to end and what
that means is we take you from front
end to back end. The world of websites
is really big. There's a lot that goes
on with something like Facebook, Club Penguin, ChatGBT.
So how does it all work? This is
just a bit of an intro to what
you'll be seeing this week and sort of
next week. Any time we access a website,
we're going to Chrome and then entering a
URL. But what really happens, you know? So
you are the client. Think of yourself as
a computer. And think of the server as
just another computer, let's say, like Facebook's computer,
where you want to send a request to
get the website that you put into your
URL or into Chrome. So essentially, you're sending
a GET request to Facebook to get the
website that you want. And this computer responds
because it stores and serves the website that
you're actually requesting. So it responds with the
web page files, which are then taken by
the browser that you're using, probably Chrome, which
is then used to view the website. So
that's how we see everything on the Internet.
We have URLs, and request websites from servers.
We get back those web page files and
then we see whatever we see on the
screen. So it's a pretty oversimplified view of
the client server architecture. And then these actual
web page files that we're receiving are HTML
files, which display content like the basic building
blocks, CSS files, which style the HTML, JavaScript,
which lets these files, I guess, have, like,
actions, and then assets, like images, GIFs, etcetera.
Yeah. So what exactly are we gonna be
building in this first week and leading into
next week? I'll open up this website just
for you guys to see it really quickly.
But essentially, we're gonna be building this entire
website from the ground up. It's going to
be called Catbook, and you can also visit
it by going to this link. But it's
going to have a home page, a profile,
live chats, a game, and then other aspects
as well, such as authentication. So more about
the course now. There's gonna be four milestones
for everyone to complete if you're taking this
class for credit. Milestones zero is gonna be
due this Wednesday, and it's gonna be ideation.
Essentially, you're just gonna be creating a list
of topics or project ideas on a Google
Form and then submitting that Google Form. It's
pretty simple, and it should really only take
like an hour or even less. But yeah,
we'll be sending out information soon for that.
Next is project pitches. It's going to be
this weekend. You're going to have to sign
up for a time slot for some slot
either Saturday or Sunday from one to 5PM.
It's gonna be around, I think, thirty minutes
or maybe less. But at this point, you
would have a project idea, and you would
be pitching your projects to some of the
staff members and we'll give feedback about it
and hopefully give some helpful advice about how
to get started, what pitfalls you might fall
into, and how to navigate the entire course.
Milestone two is pretty long after. It's gonna
be Wednesday, January 22. And this is your
MVP. So some sort of working prototype for
your project. We're not expecting the whole thing,
but we want to see a lot of
functionality already figured out by then. And then
the final website, Milestone three, is due January
29. That's around the end of IEP during
week four. Any questions about these milestones? And
as a reminder, passing the class just requires
you to do all four of these milestones,
so it's not too hard. As long as
you put in effort and it's clear that
you have, then you'll be on your way
to passing the class. So more about the
actual websites that you will be building. So
you'll be building some dynamic website supported by
a back end, so not just like a
front end you might be able to build
through like some website builders. You're gonna be
creating pretty much the whole thing yourselves. So
front end, back end, database, everything is gonna
be built by you. We want the website
to have personalized experience based on user accounts,
so some sort of authentication like you saw
on the example website. We want it to
be different based on who's logged in. Minimum
security requirements fulfilled. This isn't that big of
a deal, but yeah, we don't want your
website to be a vulnerability or whatever. We
want you to be creative and have your
own original design for the website and implementation.
A lot of the code is going be
given to you from the skeleton code that
we'll provide, but past that, we'd like you
to implement as much as possible yourself. All
the code should be your own. And then
if you do use any other outside code,
to just cite it properly and limit that
use if possible. And then everyone should have
a GitHub repo by now or if you
haven't already, that's okay. You should have received
instructions from an email to set up the
GitHub repo and this should be shared between
your teammates. It's only private to you guys
and we can also like check out this
repository so that we can help you on
our end. Some cannots for the website. You
cannot create a website using pre existing, like,
website builders like WordSpace WordPress or Squarespace. You
cannot use any part of a previous project,
just so that the playing field is level
for everyone. You cannot outsource your development. You
can't tell your friends who are really good
at web development who are not taking the
class to do the website for you. We
hope that this class is more or is
mostly just like an opportunity for you to
learn by actually creating. Yeah. So for judging,
there's four categories. The first is functionality, so
just like whether or not your website works
as intended. These are like the technical components
and we'll just be like playing around with
your website to make sure that it's working
fine. Usability is more about like the user
experience, making sure that the website is easy
to use. Aesthetics, self explanatory. And then concept
execution. We want your website to sort of
have a purpose. Main use of web development
is really to just create products that are
actually useful or achieve some goal. So we
want your website to do something or solve
some problem that you have come up with
like a good solution. Okay. So how do
you get help throughout this entire course? Number
one tool is Piazza. If you haven't already,
please join weblab.ispiazza. Ask questions at any time.
I think our average response time is like
five minutes during the course. We're constantly on
it answering questions as fast as we can.
Go to the course website if you have
more questions about the course logistics, if you
want to visit the schedule, if you want
to read the rules about the competition more.
Visit the course website info or weblab.isinfo for
resources. It has all of the links that
you can I'll actually just open it. At
the bottom, you can find all the things
that we're pretty much going over in these
slides, as well as more information about the
contest here, and then FAQ. And then please
show up to office hours too. I think
in person feedback and help is a lot
more useful than Piazza actually. Yeah. So office
hours are usually seven to nine, and you
can find them on the schedule. So, yeah,
today we should have office hours from seven
to 9PM. If you need help with homework
zero, setting stuff up, please show up. Or
if you have other questions from lecture, also
please show up. Office hours are gonna be
in thirty two zero eight two, so in
Status Center. And then finally, we have extended
office hours called Hackathons. They basically run from
7PM to 1AM. So our sponsors are going
be there as well to sort of see
how everyone's doing. But yeah, these are during
week two and three. There's gonna be two
of them. There'll be food provided, drinks, etcetera.
It's pretty fun and very helpful. Okay. Yeah.
So what else is there to WebLab? Besides
just building the website from scratch, you'll learn
a lot about UI design, learning version control,
which is really helpful in all the MIT
classes you take in the future. This is
what I was referring to earlier, git. If
you're not a course six three or some
course six, this is sort of a taste
of course six three at MIT. Hopefully, you
enjoy and take more CS classes in the
future. And then if this is your first
time learning web development, hopefully this is a
great first experience for you to create something,
create your own thing from the ground up
and much more. So most importantly, WebLab is
not a classic MIT class. It is rendering
IAP and we are on the PDF scale,
so you're only graded pass fail pretty much.
As long as you do all the milestones,
you'll be good, and you'll receive a pass.
Make sure that you're also in the portal
once again so that we can actually mark
down the milestones for you. It's also all
student run, so everyone who's a TA or
a staff for WebLab is here so that
your experience in this class is as good
as possible. We want to help as much
as possible, that's why we're TA ing this
class. And at any time, if you have
questions during class, please visit weblab.isquestions or weblab.isq.
Q lets you ask a question on a
ticket and then a staff member will actually
go and visit you to help answer your
question in person. WebLab is also just a
great opportunity for you to meet new people
during lecture, during office hours, and hackathons. Hopefully,
you'll spend a lot of time with your
team to create a website you guys all
love and then you'll have a great time.
Okay. So the last part is every year
we have a theme. In past years, the
themes have been around the world, remember the
future, and then two years ago it was
and I, last year it was send it
or blend it. They're pretty open ended. But
this theme is essentially like what your website's
gonna be sort of some take on this
theme. Hopefully it's open ended enough to the
point where you can just do whatever you
want and adapt it, sort of relate it
to the theme. And as is tradition, we
have a theme reveal video.